Hey everyone, welcome to this section.
We're gonna go over what
Object Oriented Programming is.
>> Right, so let's jump right in.
So, we have three points up there,
and the first main
point of Object Oriented Programming is,
Object Oriented Programming basically,
the definition of it is, you have separate
objects for everything you want to do.
So usually in low level programming,
you have separate actions.
Everything you want to do is
a separate action, separate action.
In Object Oriented Programming,
as the name specifies,
is based around one object.
And I know that sounds confusing, but
we'll really explain what
that means as we go here.
The first aspect of Object Oriented
Programming is code use and recycling.
That means you can write one piece of
code and apply it to many uses later on.
And then the second thing we
have there is encapsulation.
That's basically another term for
hiding data or hiding information.
And a third thing we have
there is design benefits.
And design benefits is basically
something that allows us to
make our programs more concrete
with less flaws and more versatile.
>> Man those, I'm having a really
hard time understanding what you just
said, man.
Like, can you explain
to me in more detail?
>> Yeah.
How about I go through a scenario here.
>> Oh, that sounds good.
>> So, all right.
So, Randy,
can you give me the name of three animals?
>> How about dog, a tiger,
and horse, I guess?
>> All right, okay, so
we have three animals here.
And so,
let's call each animal their own objects.
>> Oh, okay.
>> So, a dog is its own object,
a cat is its own object, and
a tiger, a horse, right?
>> Horse, horse.
Horse and a tiger.
>> Horse Tiger.
Three different objects.
Can you name me three functions that all
three of these objects have in common?
>> They can all eat, walk, and sleep.
>> Eat, walk, and sleep.
So, each animal can eat, walk, and sleep.
Now, we don't want to define those
three actions for each animal.
So we're gonna create a forth
object called animals.
It's an object just called animals, and
we're gonna define each
action inside animals.
>> So, like, the animal can eat,
walk and sleep.
>> Yeah, animal can eat walk and
sleep, yeah.
>> And the dog, tiger and
the horse are all animals, so.
>> Right.
So, in the code,
what would happen is the dog would inherit
all the functions an animal can, and the
horse would inherit the same thing, and
the tiger would inherit the same thing,
so, in which case,
you don't have to define each action three
different times, you just do it once.
>> Reusable code, right?
>> Reusable code, that's that.
And, cancellation.
So, as I mentioned earlier, it's privacy.
So let's say I add a fourth animal,
a duck.
The duck is going to be completely
oblivious to what the horse can do,
what the dog can do, and
what the tiger can do.
Duck is it's own thing and yet,
it'll still inherit everything else that
the animal can do,
it can sit, walk, play and
lastly, because of these three things,
we have really good design benefits.
And so, the design benefit is that you
plan out everything before hand so
you think of all the commonalities and
all the common functionalities.
And once you plan everything out,
it makes the end product much more easy to
come by and there is gonna be less flaws.
And, if there is a flaw,
you can easily fix it.
You don't need to redo every single step.
So those are the advantages of
Object Oriented Programming and
the main idea of it.
>> Some disadvantages would be,
the file sizes tend to be
quite large because of all,
everything you have to include.
Maybe you have to write extra stuff,
right, maybe?
>> Yeah.
>> And then the programs tend to be
slower, as well, since it includes
a wide, the size of the files are very
big, so maybe it's not as efficient.
>> Right, so it'll take longer to
compile and run all these larger files.
And so, basically,
that's the idea of Object Oriented
Programming and you can pause the video or
you can look on our documentation and
find more resources on it.
And with that,
we'll see you on our next video.